Separable Phrasal Verbs.

blow up - explode - The terrorists tried to blow up the railroad station.
bring up - mention a topic - My mother brought up that little matter of my prison record again.
bring up - raise children - It isn't easy to bring up children nowadays.
call off - cancel - They called off this afternoon's meeting.
do over - repeat a job - Do this homework over.
fill out - complete a form - Fill out the application form and mail it in.
fill up - fill to capacity - She filled up the grocery cart with free food.
find out - discover - My sister found out that her husband had been planning a surprise party for her.
give away - give something to someone else for free - The filling station was giving away free gas.
give back - return an object - My brother borrowed my car. I have a feeling he's not about to give it back.
hand in - submit something(assignment) - The students handed in their papers and left the room.
hand up - put something on hook or receiver - She hung up the phone before she hung up her clothes.
hold up - delay - I hate to hold up the meeting, but I have to go to the bathroom.
hold up - rob - Three masked gunmen held up the Security Bank this afternoon.
leave out - omit - You left out the part about the police chase down Asylum Avenue.
look over - examine, check - The lawyers looked over the papers carefully before questioning the witness.
look up - search in a list - You've misspelled this word again. You'd better look it up.
make up - invent a story or lie - She knew she was in trouble, so she made up a story about going to the movies with her friends.
make out - hear, understand - He was so far away, we really couldn't make out what he was saying.
pick out - choose - There were three mem in the line-up. She picked up the guy she thought had stolen her purse.
pick up - lift something off something else -  The crane picked up the entire house.
point out - call attention to - As we drove through Paris, Francoise pointed out the major historical sites.
put away - save or store - We put away money for our retirement. She put away the cereal boxes.
put off - postpone - We ask the boss to put off the meeting until tomorrow.
put on - put clothing on the body - I put on a sweater and a jacket.
put out - extinguish - The firefighters put out the house fire before it could spread.
read over - peruse - I read over the homework, but couldn't make my sense of it.
set up - to arrange, begin - My wife set up the living room exactly the way she wanted. She set it up.
take down - make a written note - These are your instructions. Take them down before you forget.
take off - remove clothing - It was so hot that I had to take off my shirt.
talk over - discuss - We have serious problems here. Let's talk them over like adults.
throw away - discard - That's a lot of money! Don't just throw it away.
try on - put clothing on to see if it fits - She tried on fifteen dresses before she found one she liked.
try out - test - I tried out four cars before I could find one that pleased me.
turn down - lower volume - Your radio is driving me crazy!Please turn it down.
turn down - reject - He applied for a promotion twice this year, but he was turned down both times.
turn up - raise the volume. Grandpa couldn't hear, so he turned up his hearing aid.



 



































